hi everyone I'm Ryan arey before you
watch El Camino you may want to rehash
some of the fuzzy details of Breaking
Bad that you might have forgotten over
the past few years so we've recapped all
of the seasons in this video this is
screen crush Breaking Bad is the story
of a beige clad sad-sack named walter
white he squandered a once promising
career as a chemist and now teaches high
school chemistry but more importantly
this is a show about change
Walt's married to a pregnant bombshell
named Skyler and they have a
fifteen-year-old son named Walt Jr who
loves a complete breakfast raisin bread
pancakes Oh big and has cerebral palsy
Skyler sister is named Marie and her
kleptomania is a vital part of this
series Marie's husband is Hank an alpha
male DEA agent Glock 22 that's my daily
care he's a good cop but let's Walt hold
his gun so he can make fun of him looks
like Keith Richards with a glass of warm
milk but you can't blame them because
Walt is after all the kind of guy who
gets a handy while his wife wins an eBay
auction yes he's diagnosed with terminal
lung cancer and decides to go into
business cooking crystal meth
in an RV he partners with his former
student Jesse Pinkman and I'm the silent
partner Jesse takes him convincing some
straight like you giant stick up his ass
all of a sudden age what 60 he's just
gonna break bad he said it hey Jay turns
out Walter is the Remy of meth chefs
this this is arts actually it's just
basic chemistry yes science but their
cook is rudely interrupted by a
mid-level dealer who they nearly
suffocate to death
Walt loses a coin toss and has to Jabba
the man to death but not before making
him a sandwich then it turns out that
the dead guy was one of Hanks informants
for the DEA even the cops are impressed
with Walt's meth they tell us it is the
purest yes science Walt goes to a
birthday party for his college roommate
who he thinks screwed him out of
billions of dollars billions with a B he
and his wife Walt's ex-girlfriend offer
him excellent health insurance but Walt
full of pride would rather pay his own
way by selling recreational poison from
a Winnebago he starts to act like a
badass wearing darker clothes beating up
dude bros and making cars explode yes
science Jesse needs a mid-level dealer
for their product to replace their last
dealer so he approaches Tuco Salamanca
Akron
kid who is in desperate need of an
ashtray negotiations go poorly so Walt
counteroffers with an explosion he
creates a new identity for himself
Heisenberg it really gets off one making
things explode Walt and Jesse make their
meth with a chemical called
methamphetamine which they have to steal
the methylamine turns their meth moves
which becomes their signature also Marie
is still a kleptomaniac Walt has a plan
to poison Tuco with rice but then to go
kidnaps them and forces them to watch TV
with his uncle Hector who used to be a
captain in a Mexican drug cartel Walt
and Jesse escape just as Hank tracks
down Jesse's car and shoots
Tuco to death at work they reward him
with the promotion and a pretty [ __ ]
up trophy later he's transferred to El
Paso where an exploding head on a turtle
Gibson PTSD but he's still trying to
track down Heisenberg facing a power
vacuum Walt and Jesse go into business
for themselves exponential growth that's
the keys not our territory now he
doesn't know the territory doesn't know
the territory
Jesse and Lissa's friends badger skinny
Pete and combo to be as dealers but they
get some pushback when a little boy
shoots combo right in the soda
Skyler becomes suspicious of Walt have
to tell me what's really going on right
now and goes back to her accounting job
working for a schlub named Ted they
flirt turns out ted has been embezzling
money and misreporting his income to the
IRS to stay afloat but Skyler agrees to
keep this secret because while Walt's
personal life is falling apart
Jesse's is coming together he falls in
love with the B and 23 next-door James
she's a tattoo artist and recovering
heroin addict and Sue the two start to
enable each other it's gonna smoke the
marijuana like a cigarette badger is
scooped up by the worst narc ever I just
want to get high so Walt and Jesse hire
a shady lawyer you don't want a criminal
lawyer right you want a criminal lawyer
named Saul Goodman
better call Saul Saul helps them to
launder their money and becomes their
all-around fixer I once convinced a
woman that I was Kevin Costner and it
worked because I believed it after the
death of combo Walt Jessie want to get
out of distribution so Saul sets them up
with a new wholesaler Gus freak and
ever smudge his Jordans time Gus owns a
chain of fried chicken joints donates
money to the DEA children fund and is
the drug kingpin of the southwest
while Jesse gets Trainspotting hi Walt
makes a big score but misses the birth
of his daughter he holds on to Jessi's
happen till he gets clean until Jane
blackmails them any hands over the money
how do I know she'll keep quiet I guess
you don't that same night he has a drink
with Q who happens to be Jane's father
Walt decides to make things right with
Jesse but arrives just as Jane is Oh
Dean instead of rowing her on a side
like he did for his own daughter earlier
in the episode he watches her die Saul's
p.i Mike Ehrmantraut cleans up the mess
Mike is good at waiting I don't care for
unpredictable so we wait
killing and being the best pop hop in
the world boom boom boom boom meanwhile
Jesse goes into rehab Skyler leaves Walt
for having a secret cellphone and q
who's an air traffic controller is so
distracted with grief that he causes a
mid-air collision literally in Walt's
home with symbols of his corruption and
secret evil identity is that symbolic
deep in Mexico where everything is
apparently yellow Tuco's badass cousins
make their way north to kill Walter for
revenge
but Gus encourages them to redirect
their anger in a more proactive
direction nombre del a hint there is
Hank Schrader wall comes clean to Skyler
methamphetamine and she sues for divorce
Walt refuses to leave so to get back at
him she and Ted to get back at her Walt
throws some pure uncut pizza on the roof
Walt and Jesse destroyed the RV with the
help of a junkyard owner named old Joe
because apparently all guys who owned
junkyards are named Joe please call
monster Joe's truck and tow from time to
time Joe helps Walt and Jesse break the
law yes science Walt quits his job and
begins working for Gus full-time his lab
assistant is Gail the most adorable nerd
ever
yes I am a nerd Gail loves special
brewing coffee measuring T temperature
with a laser building potato clocks
quoting Walt Whitman time-to-time looked
up in perfect silence stars and singing
karaoke
I love Gail thank you they work in an
enormous super lab beneath the laundry
cooking 200 pounds of meth a week which
is distributed with fast food and supply
trucks Jesse meanwhile gets out of rehab
it almost gets busted by Hank instead
Hank busts up his face and Jesse swears
revenge since she earns he's mine
fearing he'll be exposed
Walt fire scale and takes on Jesse as
this new lab partner in the house Hank
is suspended for beating up Jesse then
he immediately kills Tuco's cousins in
the parking lot
this cost him the use of his legs and
his mojo great give up I mean seriously
it's
meanwhile Schuyler decides the Walt
making recreational poison isn't so bad
and she agrees to help him launder his
money Jesse rebounds and meets a nice
woman in group named Andrea she has an
adorable son named Brock but it turns
out her little brother is all about that
street life and killed combo last season
Jesse confronts Gus about using child
soldiers is how you do business
Walt fears for Jessie's life so he
chooses a full measure and kills the
dealers himself
hashtag justice for combo Gus is super
pissed off Walt realizes they're
expendable as long as Gail can take his
place so Jesse reluctantly fine-scale
and now Walt and Jesse keep working for
Gus who shows his displeasure by
unveiling his company retirement plan
like any good employer he uses peer
mediator support to give them a truthful
evaluation Marie is still a kleptomaniac
Hank starts collecting rock because he's
super depressed and he's hit his mineral
bottom his DEA buddy Steve Gomez shows
him gales notebook leading him to think
the Gayle was actually Heisenberg all
along what
but then Walt gets drunk at his ego
takes over looks like nothing more than
just simple rogue copying now Hank is
all fired up and has nothing but free
time so he investigates Heisenberg and
Gus Frank he even has Walt put a tracker
on Gus's car and drive him to the meth
lab laundry Jesse doesn't cope well with
murdering an innocent nerd so he drowns
out the voices in his head with parties
and a stereo that Marty McFly could only
dream of
Gus sees Walter as a threat so he needs
to find a new full-time meth cook
therefore he asked Mike to raise Jesse's
self-esteem just like you wanted the
kids a hero this whole season plays out
like a Mean Girls mind game with Gus and
Walt each vying for Jesse's affection
tell you right
eventually Walt and Jesse decides that
he should poison Gus with rice which he
stores inside Chekhov's upside down
cigarette Skyler buys the carwash where
Walt used to work before he asked the
owner to give his genitals a full
service wash so the money laundering is
going just fine ted gets audited by the
IRS but Skyler keeps him out of trouble
with her boobs mmm look she even gives
him money to pay off the government but
he buys a car instead say yours that's
high
so Saul sends a couple stand-up
comedians to make sure he pays and
things kind of go south Jesse takes a
trip with Gustav visit the cartel where
he proves he's just as good a chef as
mr. white in an alarming powerplay
Gus poisons the cartel and sets himself
up as the sole source of methamphetamine
in the region
congratulations Gus now Walt is really
panicky and he wants to pay a guy to
make he and his family disappear but it
turns out Skyler just gave all his money
to Ted
so now Skyler is afraid for Walt safety
and this show of fear and pity really
pisses him off a guy opens his door and
gets shot and you think that of me no I
am the one who knocks now she realizes
that her husband is an evil douche and
wants to leave him then Andrea's son
Brock gets sick and he almost dies and
Jesse can't find his ricin cigarette
somehow Walt convinces him that Gus
poisoned the kids to turn Jesse against
Walt gonna do this one way or another
miss away and let me help to get revenge
the two of them use Hector as a suicide
bomber to finally take out gusts Walt
and Jesse then fulfilled the American
dream of burning their workplace to the
ground and after all that it turns out
that Gus didn't even poison the kid he
just ate some berries off a plant
Walt tells Skyler but now she's
terrified of him and she should be
because Walt actually did poison the
hell out of that little boy so now Walt
covers his tracks by trashing the plant
and then he places the cigarette that
he'll pickpocketed off Jesse inside a DJ
Roomba Ted loses the ability to walk in
a scares of scalar this makes Skyler
re-evaluate her choices hello darkness
my old friend
she fakes a suicide attempt so the kids
have an excuse to live with Hank and
Marie then she lays this truth bomb on
walls we waiting for
the cancer to come back meanwhile Walt
partners with Jesse and Mike to become
drug kingpins well it's pretty pissed at
the overhead expenses like paying off
Mike's old employees to keep him quiet
they use a shady pest control company as
cover while they cook in people's homes
at the pest company they meet Todd a
pure evil all Chuck's boy-next-door with
the eyes of a shark lifeless eyes like
then they partnered with Lydia a
corporate human Chihuahua who gussed
used to cover his shady dealings and
build a distribution network and things
go great for a while while Walt and
Jesse strengthen their surrogate father
and son bond back at the DEA Hank gets a
promotion he's closing in on Heisenberg
and Lydia even putting a tracker on
their methylamine so the gang steals
methylamine and a daring train heist
where Walt promises now that we're in
control no one else gets hurt after Todd
shoots a kid Mike and Jesse get itchy
feet they want to sell out their share
of the business to a guy named Declan
but Walt is more interested in being a
kingpin I'm in the Empire business and
quoting Destiny's Child songs say my
name Mike and Jesse sell their shares
but then the DEA freezes Mike's assets
so now he can't pay off his former
employees to stay quiet
Walt kills Mike then Todd introduces him
to his Uncle Jack leader of some Nazi
assassins for hire they kill all of
Mike's guys in prison at the same time
thereby severing any connection Walt has
to Gus and leaving him in the clear so
then things go great for a while with
Lydia is selling their meth the Czech
Republic and Todd doing his best to
assist vault
finally after Skyler shows him a hot tub
sighs pile of money he walks away Wow
but then Hank comes over takes a and
find some Whitman poetry signed by Gale
bedecker now he noticed what was
actually Heisenberg all along you got me
and remember this show takes place in
2008 and 2009 today
Walt would have never been caught
because Hank would have been watching
screen crush videos on his phone so kids
put down your phone when you poop you
might just catch a meth dealer
Walt realizes that Hank knows the truth
and tells him to try because my
Chancellor is back this sets off a game
of chess between Walt and Skyler versus
Hank and Marie's and involves blackmail
and guacamole bean made at the table we
made right here at the table
Walt tries to send Jesse away but then
Jesse figures out the whole thing with
the ricin cigarette and he swears
revenge teaming up with Hank Walt
realizes this betrayal and hires Nazi
Jack to kill Jesse thank you Jesse find
out the Walt's buried his money in the
desert they lure him to his money which
is also there at first place we cooked
like ever but then the Nazi show up a
gunfight ensues killing Steve Gomez and
eventually Hank I watched Jane die
the Nazis take Jesse prisoner and steal
almost all of Walt's money he gets home
tries to get his family to come with him
to change their identities and Skyler
sticks him with a knife then he realizes
that his family is lost forever
we're family he doesn't even have the
heart to follow through with kidnapping
his baby daughter instead he gets
disappeared and lives in a cabin in New
Hampshire for a year while Robert
Forester brings him chemo drugs and
newspapers back in Albuquerque Nazi Jack
becomes a meth kingpin by using and then
slave Jesse to cook for him to make sure
he behaves Todd executes his girlfriend
while he watches now a near death Walt
hatches one final plan to get revenge
and provide for his family he gives his
money to Gretchen and Elliott to form a
revocable trust for his kids by using
badger and skinny Pete as fake assassins
with laser pointers hopefully he also
gave badger money to finance a Star Trek
spec script every time Chekov eats a pie
Scottie beams it right out of Walt tells
Skylar where Hank and Steve are buried
and finally confesses to her did it for
me I liked it he poisons Lydia with
ricin which is all kinds of duck because
she has a daughter sleeping in the next
room but Lydia and finally he builds a
robot machine gun to kill the Nazis
saving Dahl ID Todd for Jessi
Jesse who has been used abused and
enslaved finally makes his own choice
then do it yourself and drives away from
the carnage now Walt's dying from a
bullet wound in his side and he spends
his final moments in the chemistry lab
his one true love
leaving viewers everywhere to wonder
what's up with Marie's kleptomania so
that's the rundown of Breaking Bad let
me know your favorite Breaking Bad quote
in the comments below and if it's your
first time here please subscribe for
screen Crush I'm Ryan Arry
[Music]